[SWDEV-567273] Add GPU partition documentation and examples (#3753)
ROCm/rocm-systems: projects/amdsmi/docs/conceptual/partition.md

            X6["XCD 6 / XCC 6"]
            X7["XCD 7 / XCC 7"]
            HBM67["HBM Stack 6\nHBM Stack 7"]
            X6 --> HBM67
            X7 --> HBM67
        end
    end
```

```{note}
The exact partition profiles and logical GPU counts available depend on the physical GPU
model. Run `sudo amd-smi partition --accelerator` on the target system to confirm profile
count and partition limits for your hardware.
```

## Accelerator partitioning

Accelerator partitioning controls how the GPU's XCCs (Accelerated Compute Cores) are grouped
into XCPs (Accelerated Compute Processors). By grouping XCCs differently, the physical GPU is
presented to the operating system as one or more independent logical GPU devices.

### Accelerator partition modes

| Mode | Name | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `SPX` | Single GPU mode | All XCCs work together as one logical GPU with shared memory |
| `DPX` | Dual GPU mode | Half the XCCs form each of 2 logical GPUs with shared memory |
| `TPX` | Triple GPU mode | One-third of the XCCs form each of 3 logical GPUs with shared memory |
| `QPX` | Quad GPU mode | One-quarter of the XCCs form each of 4 logical GPUs with shared memory |

> | `CPX` | Core GPU mode | Each XCC is its own logical GPU with shared memory |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SPX` | Single GPU mode | All XCCs work together as one logical GPU |
| `DPX` | Dual GPU mode | Half the XCCs form each of 2 logical GPUs |
| `TPX` | Triple GPU mode | One-third of the XCCs form each of 3 logical GPUs |
| `QPX` | Quad GPU mode | One-quarter of the XCCs form each of 4 logical GPUs |
| `CPX` | Core GPU mode | Each XCC is its own logical GPU |
```

Maybe it's slightly confusing to mention "with shared memory" in this table

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description lang=en": "AMD SMI conceptual guide for GPU accelerator and memory partitioning."

>     "keywords": "system, management, interface, partition, compute, memory, NPS, SPX, DPX, TPX, QPX, CPX, XCC, accelerator, amd-smi"

Reviewer 2: Add instinct as a keyword.

Reviewer 2: Done in latest commit. 👍

:::::{tab-set}
::::{tab-item} C/C++
The AMD SMI library provides APIs to query and set both compute and memory partition modes.

The general workflow is:

1. Query the current partition settings with `amdsmi_get_gpu_accelerator_partition_profile()`
   and `amdsmi_get_gpu_memory_partition()`.
2. Query available modes **before making any changes** with
   `amdsmi_get_gpu_memory_partition_config()` and
   `amdsmi_get_gpu_accelerator_partition_profile_config()`. Only set modes listed as supported.
3. Set the memory partition mode with `amdsmi_set_gpu_memory_partition()` or `amdsmi_set_gpu_memory_partition_mode()`.
4. Reload the driver to apply the memory partition change. All GPU activity must be stopped
   first. The reload may reset the accelerator partition to a default mode.
5. Re-initialize and verify: confirm the new memory partition mode and device count.
6. Set the accelerator partition by profile index with
   `amdsmi_set_gpu_accelerator_partition_profile()` (use only indexes valid for the active
   memory partition, as seen in step 2).
7. Verify: confirm the accelerator partition mode and device count.

```{code-block} cpp

> #include "amd_smi/amdsmi.h"

Reviewer 2: simplify example and link to full C++ example

Reviewer 2: Done in latest commit. 👍

- `amdsmi_set_gpu_memory_partition_mode()` -- Set memory partition mode (alternative API).
- `amdsmi_gpu_driver_reload()` -- Reload the amdgpu driver to apply memory partition changes.

See [Compute Partition Functions](/doxygen/docBin/html/group__tagComputePartition),
[Memory Partition Functions](/doxygen/docBin/html/group__tagMemoryPartition), and
[Accelerator Partition Profile Functions](/doxygen/docBin/html/group__tagAcceleratorPartition)
for the full API reference.
::::

::::{tab-item} Python
The Python API mirrors the C API. The general workflow is:

1. Query the current partition settings.
2. Query available modes **before making any changes**. Only set modes listed as supported.
3. Set the memory partition mode.
4. Reload the driver to apply the change. All GPU activity must be stopped first. The reload
   may reset the accelerator partition to a default mode.
5. Re-initialize and verify: confirm the new memory partition mode and device count.
6. Set the accelerator partition by profile index, using only indexes valid for the active
   memory partition (as seen in step 2).
7. Verify: confirm the accelerator partition mode and device count.

> ```{code-block} python

Reviewer 2: simplify example and link to full python example

Reviewer 2: Done in latest commit. 👍
